---
title: 'Responding to Russia''s Elections: Duma Day Machine '
date: '2016-09-22 09:10:00'
layout: post
fullview: false 
excerpt: This article discusses the upcoming Russian elections and Vladimir Putin’s role in them.  
comments: true 
---
This article discusses the upcoming Russian elections and Vladimir Putin’s role in them. 

The author primarily focuses on the mass dissent against Mr. Putin; he notes that “[...] millions of Russians have fallen into penury. Wages have plunged and labour protests are on the rise,” and makes no mention of the potential policies that may make Mr. Putin popular among his voting blocs. He notes the efforts made by the Kremlin to make the election seem democratic and western (“[...] the government replaced the odious head of the Central Election Commission, Vladimir Churov [...] with Ella Pamfilova, a respected former human rights ombudsman”) with an almost belittling, jeering tone. 

The author has an obvious slant; he feels that Mr. Putin is a modern despot who will stay in power, not because of democracy or righteousness, but because of the intricate election measures that the Kremlin has put in place because of that. This makes sense; The Economist’s readership is composed mostly of westernized world leaders, type-A corporate heads, and ambitious young people. For these people, Russia’s recent military and economic maneuvers have not been very popular or advisable. 

Mr. Putin is mindful of the international community’s opinion of him, contrary to what popular opinion may be. This is seen in Russia’s treatment of their military action in Ukraine; they do not openly condone these acts. 

There is a great desire in Russia to become as relevant and feared as the Soviet Union once was, but once again, all action done to become like the USSR again is done quietly. This is what makes Mr. Putin such an effective leader; he is restoring Russia’s might not by open rearmament and intimidation, but by quiet, gradual maneuvers. 

**REFERENCES**

"Russia's Elections: Duma-day machine." *The Economist*, Sept. 2016, pp. 50. 
